Let's do partial indexes.
So we're gonna go back here with a gin.
We're gonna copy this query really quick.
Actually we can just grab all of these.
So we're gonna be looking at
category names for just a second.
So specifically category_names.
So we're gonna be looking
at category_names.
It has a category ID,
a name and a language.
Fathom for a moment, this is an enormous
table it's actually not small.
So SELECT COUNT(*) FROM category_names;
you can see 36,000, it's not 0.
Let's say that we have an English
website that 99.999% of our
traffic is all English, but
we do have a German language as well.
Most of our users that are going to
be querying just the English part and
really don't need to have
the German parts indexed.
If I say create index on category names,
all the German stuff is
gonna get indexed, which would be
wasteful for most of our users.
What do we do about that?
Well, you can actually add
a where clause in your index.
So, And you can say here
SELECT DISTINCT language,
count(*) FROM category_names
GROUP BY language.
You can see we mostly have English and
German category names.
But less than a third of our table is,
not less than third,
less than half anyway, is English.
So it'd be useful if we could
only index on that side.
So let's go grab this query right here.
If we do that, you can see,
Get a sequential scan and
that's gonna be about 832.
But let's go ahead and
create this index here.
So we're gonna say CREATE INDEX,
whatever you wanna call it,
index_en_category_names.
ON category_names(language)
WHERE language = 'en'
So now we have an English
language in index.
So if I run that same category,
or that same query again,
notice I get way better times.
So I went from I set a time of 1:32 and
a execution time
of 6:41 to 9:05 or so
know this is 132, right?
So basically all that
setup time ended up being,
that's interesting that it ends up being
the same or is the same as that got it.
Okay, so anyway,
>> So
will it only use this index when you
have a where clause for English?
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
>> So the planner can see that your where
clauses matches up in a table to use those
together.
So you can see I went from 832
down to 641, a small improvement.
The set of time is pretty big and
when you add those WHERE clauses,
the set of time gets bigger, right?
Nonetheless, it's what,
it's 25% better-ish.
It's not nothing.
But let's run that same query again for
'de'.
And we're right back to that 832, right?
So it's actually only doing part of it.
In our case,
if I was actually really doing this,
it's probably about the same speed.
In fact, we can even just try it and
see what happens,
I actually haven't tried this.
What did I call that drop that index?
Idx something or other
>> Idx_en_ category_names.
>> There we go, and
then we will create that again and
we'll just drop this WHERE clause.
Try that again with the English names.
So we went from, I think 672 to 674.
No, 641 30 units
that's an effectual time
this was 993 to 987.
So that's just gonna be on the how busy
is my computer right now kind of thing.
But now, if I go back and I do that, this
one this will also get the same benefit.
So you can see this one took 3893,
probably because it wasn't cached and
probably for I don't know,
other reasons as well.
So in this case, if this was a code
hot path, I probably just loop and
all the German stuff as well,
might as well,
the performance benefits of
including German was not that big.
But, if there was a million entries,
in this database or a billion,
it would make a big difference.
So all these tradeoffs be
making these your head,
I just wanna show you that
you can do partial indexes.